== Previewify

Previewify is a Ruby on Rails gem designed to make previewing editable content as simple and seamless as possible. It does this through a mixture of controller filters (to determine when to show the preview version) and model methods (allowing you to save draft versions and then publish them).

The Previewify gem was built for use with a CMS where a user wants to save a draft (preview) version they are working on and then published that version once it is ready. Along with this a complete history of published versions will be saved so you can revert back to a previously published version at any time.

The published snapshots are read only. To change the current published version, update the preview to the desired state and call publish! on it. This
will create a new published version.

Previewify borrows some aspects from acts_as_versioned but with Previewify you only ever have one saved preview version along with a saved history of published versions. With acts_as_versioned you get a new saved version every time you modify an object.

== Getting started

  gem install previewify
  
In the model you want to be previewable add the call to previewify.

  class BlogPost < ActiveRecord::Base
    previewify
  end
  
In order to get started with Previewify you need to create a migration to generate the table that will store your published versions. By default the table name will be the name of your model with 'Publishes' appended to the name eg: BlogPostPublishes

  class BlogPostPublishes < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      BlogPost.create_published_table
    end
  
    def self.down
      BlogPost.drop_published_table
    end
  end
  
Run the new migrations (be sure to run against your test database as well)

  rake db:migrate

== Usage

Previewify requires that you add code to both your controllers and your models. The code in your controllers is used to determine whether to display the preview versions or a published versions of your previewable objects. The model code determines how you interact with your draft and published versions

=== Model

In some instances you may need some methods to only be available from you published instances of your object, you can specify methods to only be available on published objects like this:

  previewify :published_only_methods => [:cache]
  
Similarly you can specify methods that will only be available on a preview version of an object:

  previewify :preview_only_methods => [:published_versions_by, :default_title]
  
Previewify also adds the preview? and published? methods to your objects which allows you to perform actions only on when needed:

  validates_uniqueness_of :drafts_allowed, :if => :preview?
  validates_uniqueness_of :slug, :if => :published?
  
Once you have a preview version and you are happy with it you can call publish! on that object to make it the currently published version.

  blog_post = BlogPost.find(1)
  blog_post.publish!
  
  blog_post = BlogPost.find(1)
  blog_post.revert_to_version!(4)


The published version does not need to contain all the attributes that the preview version does. For example, the published version of an article may not need to store the editor's notes:

  previewify :preview_only_attributes => :editors_notes

To get information about the publication state of your object, you can use
  blog_post.has_unpublished_changes?
  blog_post.published?
  and
  blog_post.published_on

=== Controller

Unlike other versioning gems Previewify uses controller filters to determine whether is should be showing a preview or the published version of your content. This allows you to easily write a filter so your preview will only be shown:

  * When a certain subdomain is set. eg: preview.example.com
  * When a user is logged in to an admin area.
  * A certain parameter is set in the URL. eg: example.com?preview=true
  
Inside you controller (ideally your ApplicationController) you add the following before filter.

  before_filter :show_preview_or_live

For example, you can then create a method in the controller that will determine if the preview or published version should be shown:

  def show_preview_or_live
    show_preview(preview_url?)
  end

  def preview_url?
    request.host.match(/preview/)
  end

If the preview_url? method returns true then when you retrieve a previewable object it will return the preview version that is saved. When preview_url? returns false the latest published version will be returned.
Dynamic finders will also honour the state set by show_preview:

  eg. BlogPost.find_by_title('') will find preview versions by title if show_preview(false), or the latest published version if show_preview(true)

It is possible to explicitly load the published version:

    BlogPost.published_version_class.find_by_title('title') will only find the latest published versions with the given title

    BlogPost.published_version_class.specific_version_by_primary_key(id, version) will find only the specific version for the given id.

    BlogPost.published_version_class.all_versions_by_primary_key(1) will find all versions for id 1. Only the latest version will have the published_flag_attribute set to true.



== Example

In your model:

  class BlogPost < ActiveRecord::Base
    previewify :preview_only_methods => [:published_versions_by, :default_title],
               :preview_only_attributes => [:editors_notes]
               :published_only_methods => [:cache]


    named_scope :old, :conditions => { :updated_at < 2.days.ago }
    named_scope :naughty, :conditions => ['body LIKE "%nipple%"']

    validates_presence_of :title # both preview and published
    validate :drafts_allowed, :if => :preview?
    validates_uniqueness_of :slug, :if => :published?

    def default_title
    end

    def title
    end

    def published_versions_by(user)
    end

    def cache
    end
  end

In your controller:

  class ApplicationController
    before_filter :show_preview_or_live

    def show_preview_or_live
      show_preview(admin_url?)
    end

    def admin_url?
      request.host.match(/admin/)
    end
  end

  class BlogPostsController < ApplicationController

    def show
    end

    def update
      if @blog_post.update_attributes(params[:blog_post])
        redirect_to blog_post_url(@blog_post_draft)
      else
        render 'edit'
      end
    end

    private

    def load_blog_post_draft
      @blog_post_draft = BlogPost.find(params[:id])
    end

    def load_blog_post
      @blog_post = BlogPost.previewify.find(params[:id]) # works on live or preview
    end
  end

== Contributing to previewify
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010. See AUTHORS for authors and LICENSE.txt for license details.
